One project: taxi-mlops — an end-to-end batch ML platform on Kubeflow

Dataset: NYC TLC trip records — monthly Parquet files, ~3M rows and ~50 MB each, published back to 2009. This is the right choice for a reason: it's naturally partitioned by month (so backfills and fan-out are real, not simulated), it's big enough that lazy pandas hurts, and it has genuine drift across years — COVID collapse, congestion surcharge introduction, schema changes between vendors. You get monitoring signal for free instead of injecting fake noise.

Target: trip duration regression (or tip-percentage, if you prefer classification). Keep the model boring — LightGBM, no tuning theater. All the difficulty lives in the orchestration.

Stack: k3d cluster → Kubeflow Pipelines v2 → MinIO + MLflow → KServe → FastAPI/React dashboard.

Phase 1 — Repo skeleton and quality gates

Do this first, before any pipeline code. Building the CI after the fact is how people end up with untested repos.

Monorepo: components/, pipelines/, lib/ (shared feature logic), serving/, dashboard/, tests/.
uv for dependency management, ruff + mypy --strict on lib/.
pytest with tiny synthetic DataFrames as fixtures — every feature transform gets a unit test asserting on exact output values, not just "doesn't crash."
GitHub Actions: lint → typecheck → test → build component images → push to GHCR, all on PR.
pre-commit mirroring the CI so you fail locally in 2s instead of in CI in 3min.

The key discipline: lib/ contains all the pandas logic and is 100% unit-tested; components are thin wrappers that call lib/. This is what makes the pipeline testable without a cluster, and it's the single most interview-legible thing in the repo.

Phase 2 — Kubeflow core

Install KFP standalone on k3d (skip full Kubeflow — the multi-user Istio stack will eat a week and teaches you nothing relevant).

Build the training DAG:

ingest(month) → validate → features
                              ↓
        ParallelFor over months → merge → train → evaluate
                                                      ↓
                                    If(rmse < champion) → register

Concretely, the things that separate "I ran the tutorial" from "I know KFP":

Custom component images, built in CI. Use @dsl.container_component or @dsl.component(base_image=...) pointing at your own GHCR tags — not packages_to_install, which is the tutorial shortcut and is unusably slow in practice.
Typed artifacts. Input[Dataset], Output[Model], Output[Metrics] passed between components. Never pass S3 paths as strings.
dsl.ParallelFor fanning out ingestion+validation across a month list, with parallelism capped so you don't OOM your laptop cluster.
dsl.If / dsl.OneOf for conditional model promotion — only register if the new model beats the champion in MLflow.
ExitHandler for cleanup and run notification, so you learn the failure path, not just the happy path.
Caching. Turn it on, then deliberately break it by changing a component input, and write down in the README what invalidates a cache key. Interviewers ask this.
Backfill as a pipeline parameter. start_month / end_month → the DAG expands over the range. Then prove idempotency: run the same backfill twice, byte-identical output.
Recurring run on cron via kfp.Client().create_recurring_run(), plus a second batch-scoring pipeline that runs monthly against the registered model and writes predictions to Parquet.
Compile pipeline YAML in CI and attach it as a release artifact. Pipeline definitions are versioned code.

Add pandera schema validation at the ingest boundary so a bad month fails loudly. This is where you also do the pandas/numpy work the JD asks for: chunked reads, dtype downcasting, vectorized haversine distance instead of .apply(). Benchmark before/after and put the table in the README.

Phase 3 — Serving

Deploy the registered model as a KServe InferenceService rather than a standalone FastAPI app. It keeps everything inside the Kubeflow world, gives you canary rollout and autoscaling to talk about, and forces you to understand the model-registry → deployment handoff.

Then optimize and measure: ONNX export, request batching, a k6 load test producing a p50/p95/throughput table across batch sizes. The numbers go in the README. "I optimized it" is worthless; "p95 dropped 340ms → 45ms at 200 RPS, here's the config" is the claim.

Phase 4 — Monitoring dashboard

Streamlit first — one day, gets you a working thing. Rebuild in React + Tailwind afterward only if you want the front-end line on your CV.

Views: pipeline run history (pulled from the KFP API), PSI/KS drift charts comparing each scored month against the training window, a prediction explorer, and a "trigger backfill" button that calls kfp.Client().run_pipeline() with a date range. That button is the whole point — it's the internal data tool a DS would actually use, and it closes the loop back to Phase 2.


Cross-cutting
Everything in English, publicly: README with an architecture diagram, ADRs for the non-obvious calls (why KFP over Airflow, why Parquet, why KServe over bare FastAPI)
